Sam: Hello!
Akash | ECH: Hey! Hello!
Sam: Good. My audio is working first.st Try this time. It's it's a miracle.
Sam: Hey, guys.
Vandan | MetaMask: Hello!
Fredrik: Hello!
Sam: How's it going.
Fredrik: Good, and you.
Sam: Yeah. Can't complain.
Vandan | MetaMask: Seems like things are getting busy and heating up lately. So.
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Vandan | MetaMask: I see a lot of movement in a lot of fronts.
Fredrik: Yeah, I have. I have something I guess, maybe to discuss. I didn't add anything to the agenda, and I just saw your message sounds. I figured I wasn't planning to discuss it, but I saw your message. So
Fredrik: from the one trillion security initiative. Quite a lot of work has been done on
Fredrik: A lot of the feedback has been around ux and how to improve ux from a security point of view, for
Fredrik: for for users in the ecosystem. And one idea that's been
Fredrik: been hard is to have some kind of
Fredrik: some type of a standard similar to L 2 beat. I know there is wallet beat, for example.
Fredrik: but I'm not entirely sure where, like the ratings come from. But I I was imagining that this
Fredrik: call could perhaps be a good idea at some point to to discuss, like what
Fredrik: what are, what what the wallets feel should be in this kind of rating guideline like what should be in order to have different stages of a wallet from a security point of view. Basically, I don't know if that's something that's been discussed
Fredrik: in the past in this call, but that.
Sam: Quite a while ago. I think it was coin spec. That was. They came on and proposed like a criteria for wallet ranking, and they have a they have a github
Sam: with that information published in it. They have some hidden criteria as well, because I guess they didn't wanna let people game. The ratings too much. But yeah, there's a document somewhere in the discord that has all that information.
Sam: and then the wallet beat group is on forecaster. I don't know if you're part of the the channel, but I can probably give you an invite if you want.
Fredrik: Yeah, I'm not part of it. So yeah, I would appreciate that.
Sam: Okay, yeah. Shoot me. Your whatever equivalent of a username is for forecaster, and I will send it your way.
Fredrik: Okay, yeah. I'll send it to you.
Sam: Cool.
Sam: Yeah, I'm actually really interested to see what what comes of the trillion dollar security kind of initiative.
Sam: it. It really does feel like
Sam: wallet. Ui has a lot of
Sam: room for improvement, especially for non crypto native people. And yeah.
Sam: kind of excited to see where that goes.
Fredrik: Yeah, there's probably gonna be an update in 2 weeks, basically
Fredrik: showing a bit of what's been done and what's been being worked on. And the ux part is.
Fredrik: it's the one thing that's going to have quite a bit of focus.
Fredrik: But yeah, there will be more info in like 2 weeks.
Sam: Well, looking forward to it.
Sam: Yeah, I don't really have too much to talk about today or anything, really. And I think it's just been like 2 or 3 months since the last call. So
Sam: yeah. If anybody has anything they want to chat about, go for it. Otherwise
Sam: hang out for a bit, and then we can call it.
Sam: How are things on the Metamask front?
Vandan | MetaMask: Yeah, I was just gonna say that we are close to launching an experimental
Vandan | MetaMask: new wallet Api pattern. We call it our multi chain. Api.
Vandan | MetaMask: We've been, we've I think we've brought it up a few times in the past. Haven't really
Vandan | MetaMask: heavily gotten to the details of it, I guess.
Vandan | MetaMask: But but now that we're we're close to actually having an experimental version available, probably makes more sense to to share more about that I'll
Vandan | MetaMask: post a link here. It's kind of more. The like has all the like technical references.
Vandan | MetaMask: You can also check out our our documentation. But basically the idea is that
Vandan | MetaMask: the multi chain Api shifts away from the pattern of having a 1 chain at a time model to having calls from the dap side that are ex explicitly directed to a particular chain, and
Vandan | MetaMask: and then can be routed accordingly. So sort of different model. There's some
Vandan | MetaMask: yeah, different patterns. But it also has some other side benefits around being able to
Vandan | MetaMask: identify different capabilities of like wallets like the the networks that they support in a more dynamic way versus, I think today there's a lot of like kind of hard coding happening.
Vandan | MetaMask: And also ideally, we move towards more of a design where
Vandan | MetaMask: Dapps are designed to gracefully degrade. When a wallet has doesn't have a certain feature
Vandan | MetaMask: that way we can. We can actually innovate a little more without worrying about kind of like just breaking things. Right now, I think there's a bit of a
Vandan | MetaMask: chicken and egg situation, where, until there's like broad wallet adoption of something like
Vandan | MetaMask: no one wants to integrate it. So it it. I think it slows things down a bit, whereas I think if we had a mo more of a model where
Vandan | MetaMask: you the da the daps, can check for a capability or a feature or an endpoint if it's there, then they can use it and take advantage of the feature. And then, if a wall, you know, if they find that a certain wallet doesn't have that, then they just gracefully degrade. That's that's kind of a pattern we're hoping to
Vandan | MetaMask: shift towards as as an industry as well. So
Vandan | MetaMask: so that's just to wet your appetite on it. Yeah, definitely take a peek
Vandan | MetaMask: share your feedback. We.
Vandan | MetaMask: We'll have it live. It's currently live on our on the Metamask extension. So already something that people can play with there
Vandan | MetaMask: and then we should have it live on our mobile app soon. So so we'll
Vandan | MetaMask: there's there's an opportunity up.
Vandan | MetaMask: Give that new interface a try.
Vandan | MetaMask: and yeah, let us let us know
Vandan | MetaMask: what you think in terms of applications. And
Vandan | MetaMask: yeah, more to come on that front. But we're our hope is that it? It helps improve ethereum ux and developer experience, too, because there's a lot of like
Vandan | MetaMask: kind of error handling you have to do with when with chain switching and all that. So we're hoping that there's more of a shift towards
Vandan | MetaMask: daps that kind of control, the the networks that they're that they're interacting with from the dap side. The users we've already made changes in the Metamask Wallet to pair with this Api. So we're kind of training users to just look
Vandan | MetaMask: at particular transactions rather than assuming that they're in some like network context for everything in the wallet.
Sam: Yeah. The modal design for wallets, I think, was kind of a bad ux decision from the start.
Vandan | MetaMask: Right. It was a lot of kind of like, Hey, you're you're everything you do is on this one network, right? And so that. I think that's already started to break down. And I think we don't. We didn't wanna constrain daps to be limited in their design because of the wallets design choices. So
Vandan | MetaMask: what this Api does is really sort of takes everything off. The developer can create, adapt that like has interactions with multiple different networks. Has its own ui for kind of
Vandan | MetaMask: picking networks for different interactions and then also potentially also getting multiple like interacting with different accounts at the same time, too. So
Vandan | MetaMask: the ui of Metamask still is like one account at a time. Context. But it doesn't mean the dap has to do things that way. And they could even trigger transactions on different accounts. And that'll all just come through in the wallet so the user just has to kind of be more aware when they when they get a confirmation, they need to actually look at
Vandan | MetaMask: the networks and and the accounts that that are being requested for that confirmation.
Sam: No, that's super cool.
Sam: Is this kind of like a a alternative or or replacement for the Cape that looks similar.
Vandan | MetaMask: It's an implementation of Cave 25, and it's all the whole family of things. That branch off of Cave 25. So yeah, it's it's a chain agnostic. We're using it for that right now to even go outside of the ethereum domain. But we think that it has benefits even. You know, when you just look at ethereum kind of above and beyond the Eip, 1193 Provider interface patterns.
Vandan | MetaMask: So it's yeah. We see some like
Vandan | MetaMask: It's as an alternative to eip 1193 provider.
Vandan | MetaMask: And there's been some chatter about potentially
Vandan | MetaMask: reflecting that into some sort of ethereum proposal, but not exactly sure how that how that
Vandan | MetaMask: like, where that would be go is like, is it an eip? Is it some sort of like informational eip? Because it's sort of defined in these like chain agnostic standards. And and we have. If you look at
Vandan | MetaMask: there's also mi, there's Mip 5, which is like the general generic. Pattern. That's kind of like, not specific to ethereum. I'll share that here as well.
Vandan | MetaMask: but yeah, we think that it's like really useful for an Evm space because of chain switching. In particular.
Sam: No, the value is definitely there. I don't think, I don't think you need to convince anybody that it's a very useful thing to to do.
Sam: No, that's awesome. I'm really glad to see that Metamask is working on this
Sam: and that's for like how, if you want to bring it into the vips world.
Sam: it'd probably be best as just an Erc, and then
Sam: yeah, put it in there and then eventually it make its way into the execution. Apis. Maybe.
Sam: that's actually something we we talked about briefly before, and we might want to talk about again at some point is creating a
Sam: like a common place to document wallet. Apis.
Sam: Because right now it's mostly like the Metamask Api documentation, the alchemy api documentation.
Sam: It'd be nice to have one that's just common for everybody, and then you could have like a a support table on it for the different wallets. Kind of like Mdn.
Sam: We've talked about that in the past. I don't know if that's something anybody would be interested in pursuing, but
Sam: probably should at some point.
Vandan | MetaMask: Yeah, I think it would be great to get some yeah more guidance on on
Vandan | MetaMask: where some of this could go and how to reflect. It also seems like sometimes, if it's not in some kind of ethereum document, then it it's like the awareness is is low as well.
Sam: Yeah, I mean, if it's just about getting like a a subdomain on ethereum.org. I don't think that would be too much of a problem. Especially if it's just like documentation. So.
Vandan | MetaMask: Great.
Sam: Yeah, I can. I can definitely look into that and see if we can spin up a repo or something.
Vandan | MetaMask: Yeah, I've also yeah, there's some folks in the chain agnostic Forum, who had some
Vandan | MetaMask: ideas there, so I can consult with them again see if they
Vandan | MetaMask: have a perspective on what the best approach is to reflect some of these chain agnostic things back to. If if there's some benefit in the ethereum domain like, how to reflect that back?
Vandan | MetaMask: Cool. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks for checking it out.
Sam: Yeah, thanks for bringing it up. I'm always excited to see stuff like this happening.
Sam: yeah, I guess.
Sam: Anybody else have anything they want to chat about. Are we good for today?
Sam: Cool? Well, sounds like we're good for today.
Sam: thanks everybody for coming out a short call. But you know. Good content. We'll talk to you all in a month.
Vandan | MetaMask: Cheers, thanks.